---
layout: post
title: Migrating Lenovo T480 from Ubuntu to Pop!_OS
---

I've been using Ubuntu exclusively on my T480 for over a year now, and have been quite happy with it. I'm not a big fan on snaps, and since Canonical is pushing it more and more onto Ubuntu, I decided to give another distribution a try.

System 76's Pop!\_OS is based on Ubuntu and seems to have quite a good reputation. It doesn't include snapd and System76 maintains a ppa that appears quite developer friendly - thus I decided to give it a try.

## BIOS settings

I changed these settings when I first setup my T480, but I included them for completeness:

### Thunderbolt BIOS Assist Mode (High CPU usage fix)

<https://forums.lenovo.com/t5/ThinkPad-T400-T500-and-newer-T/T480-CPU-temperature-and-fan-speed-under-linux/m-p/4114832>

**BIOS:**  
Config > "Thunderbolt(TM) 3" >
* Thunderbolt BIOS Assist Mode [Enabled]

### Other power-saving options and configs

**BIOS:**  
Security > "I/O Port Access" >
* Bluetooth [Disabled]
* Integrated Camera [Disabled]
* Microphone [Disabled]
* Fingerprint Reader [Disabled]

## Preparation

Remember to back up all your files. In my case the most important directories were:

* `~/.gitconfig`: global git configuration
* `~/.ssh`: ssh keys and configs; I could set up new keys everywhere, but it's just too much of a hassle
* `~/.thunderbird`: thunderbird profile & configs
* `~/.mozilla`: firefox profile & configs
* `~/Documents`
* `~/Pictures`
* `~/Videos`

_editor configs omitted_

## Post installation configurations

Pop!\_OS works quite well out of the box. Here's a few changes I did after the installation completed.

### Restore backed-up folders

Pretty much self explanatory. Restore the previously backed up folders into the home folder.

### Switch graphics mode to intel

While I struggled with the dedciated nvidia graphis card and it's power consumption last time around _(which ultimately boiled down to a simple `sudo prime-select intel`)_ , the Pop!\_OS version with proprietary nvidia drivers comes with a graphics mode toggle directly in the GUI. Or a bit more comfortable:

```
sudo system76-power graphics intel
```

https://support.system76.com/articles/graphics-switch-pop/

### Gnome configuration

* Extensions _(Pop!\_OS ships with `chrome-gnome-shell` installed)_
    * [Unite](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/1287/unite/)
    * [Dash to dock](https://extensions.gnome.org/extension/307/dash-to-dock/)
* _Disable alt+click window dragging_
    * _[change `mouse-button-modifier` in dconf](https://askubuntu.com/questions/521423/how-can-i-disable-altclick-window-dragging) => only on old distros_
* Disable animations
    * `sudo apt install gnome-tweaks`
    * "Gnome tweak tool" > Appearance > Animations

#### Keyboard shortcuts

I don't like the default keyboard shortcuts much, thus I changed the following values in _Settings > Keyboard shortcuts_:

| Name | Shortcut |
| --- | --- |
| Home folder | `Super+E` |
| Launch email client | **Disabled** |
| Launch terminal | `Ctrl+Alt+T` |
| Launch web browser | **Disabled** |
| Enter adjustment mode | **Disabled** |
| Resize window larger | **Disabled** |
| Resize window shorter | **Disabled** |
| Switch focus to window down | **Disabled** |
| Switch focus to window left | **Disabled** |
| Switch focus to window right | **Disabled** |
| Switch focus to window up | **Disabled** |
| Move to workspace above | `Ctrl+Alt+Up` |
| Move to workspace below | `Ctrl+Alt+Down` |
| Move window one workspace down | `Shift+Ctrl+Alt+Down` |
| Move window one workspace up | `Shift+Ctrl+Alt+Up` |
| Switch applications | **Disabled** |
| Switch windows | `Alt+Tab` |
| Focus the active notification | **Disabled** |
| Lock screen | `Super+L` |
| Turn screen reader on or off | **Disabled** |
| Turn zoom on or off | **Disabled** |
| Zoom in | **Disabled** |
| Zoom out | **Disabled** |
| Close window | `Alt+F4` |
| Maximize window | `Super+Up` |
| Toggle maximization state | `Super+Down` |
| View split on left | `Super+Left` |
| View split on right | `Super+Right` |

## Software

### Editors

* `sudo apt install git vim`
* atom
* IntelliJ with Scala and Android Plugins (Download from web; snap not handling JP input)

### Misc

* VPN
    * `apt install network-manager-openvpn-gnome`
	  * copy and import configs
* Privacy settings
    * Disable telemetry
        * `sudo apt purge ubuntu-report popularity-contest apport whoopsie`
        > <https://askubuntu.com/questions/1031901/how-to-disable-telemetry-for-all-users>
    * "Software Center" > Search "ubuntu-amazon-default" > Remove
* Setup editor configs
* `sudo apt install powertop`

### Input methods
* `sudo apt-get install ibus-anthy`

OR

* `sudo apt install ibus-mozc` (<- this is from google)

* "System settings" > "Region & language" > Add "Japanese (anthy | mozc)"
